In the last video we looked at how the accelerometer is able to detect the Phelan's acceleration due
to gravity.
We were able to devise a relationship between orientation and the acceleration due to gravity.
If the phone is oriented vertically then all of the acceleration due to gravity is being applied on
the vertical part of the phone.
If the phone is oriented horizontally then all of the acceleration due to gravity is being applied on
the horizontal part of the phone.
So based on what the acceleration due to gravity is we can determine the orientation of the phone.
Once we know the orientation of the phone we can steer the car based on how the phone is oriented.
Welcome back to this function for now let's take a step backwards and go to our IAB action and car.
I've been saying that we need to control the orientation of the car.
Sure.
In this scene file we made something that looks like a car.
However this car is not going to move like a vehicle unless we give it the behavior of a physics vehicle.
So back to the controller we need to modify our physics body to behave like a vehicle.
So on top of your Wii controller make a variable var vehicle is equal to a C in physics physical and
inside of your Iby action.
When we add our car right self the vehicle is equal to.
I see and physics vehicle.
The Cerasus body simply refers to the body of the car the base the frame.
So right frame the physics body and asked for the wheels before proceeding with that go to your scene.
Change the perspective of the frame to front double click frame.
It doesn't show up so click on the play button click on the play button again.
Double click on the frame and there is our car.
Now ask for the first wheel wheel one.
It looks to be the rear right will so change the name of this the rear right.
Change the name of this to rear left as it seems to be the rear left wheel.
Wheel 3 seems to be the front right wheel and that only leaves the front left wheel wheel for it.
So now inside of the Wii controller we need to declare our wheels.
Recall that the wheels are children of the frame.
So your challenge is to try and declare those wheels inside of our IAB action.
Pause the video and give it a try.
Left front left wheel is equal to frame child node with name the name of the front left wheel make sure
to get it from your seat file and its front left.
Copy this for the name and recursively will be false.
Since we're sure that the front left wheel is a direct child an immediate child of the friend enough
for the front wheel just right left front right wheel is equal to frame the child node and copy your
front right wheel name right into your seat file.
Recursively will be false.
Now ask for their rear left wheel make that also equal to frame that child node.
The name of the rear left wheel is rear left.
Let me just go into my sig file and make sure of that and it's spelled exactly as how I have it in the
Wii controller recursively as false as well and let me just copy this for their rewrite wheel and copy
the name of your rewrite wheeler right into your view controller.
So now we loaded all of our wheels into our Wii controller.
We have all of our nodes.
Now we need to declare all of these nodes as vehicular wheels before placing them in our array.
So right left the front left wheel.
V stands for vehicular is equal to a C in physics vehicle wheel.
The node is just going to be the front left wheel itself.
Do the same thing for every other wheel by just copying and pasting this three times.
This is going to be the front right wheel
the rear right wheel
and as you may have guessed the rear left wheel and now for each vehicular wheel make sure that you
put the proper node.
This will be the rear left wheel and this will be the rear right wheel.
So now we can put all of our wheels into the wheels array.
So make sure to put the back wheels first.
First put the rear right wheel or the rear left wheel whichever one once you put your back wheels then
put your front wheels front right well in front left wheel
OK.
Now it's important to note that by declaring this vehicle we're not making a new car we already have
a car we made it right here in the CFL I only created this vehicle variable so that this car can actually
act like a vehicle for example by putting our cars wheels in the vehicles the right the cars wheels
will now roll in turn and just like a real life vehicle would by putting our cars frame for the chassis
this body our cars frame is going to move with the wheels again just like a real life vehicle would.
So basically we made this vehicle variable to control the behavior of our car and mix it so that the
car can move like a relay vehicle.
So to add this vehicular behavior to our car just right self does scene view the scene physics world
thought and behavior vehicle or a self-taught vehicle to just keep things consistent.
This line of code is really important.
So physics world is a property used to manage how certain physics bodies participate in physics simulations
our car and our floor both our physics bodies.
So they are both part of our physics world by adding the vehicle behavior to the physics world.
We're adding the vehicle behavior to our car since the vehicle behavior is modified to affect only the
wheels of our car as well as our cars frim then by doing this behavior to the physical world our cars
wheels will behave like real life wheels.
They will roll and turn our cars frame will move with the wheels.
So now our car finally moves like a relay vehicle.
There is one more step to this.
How do we actually move the car before we get to any of this.
Run the up
wait for the world origin to load.
Once the world origin loads start detecting some surfaces once you've detected a big enough surface
had your car and everything gets all messed up.
Before I explain this bug let me just go back to my wii controller.
Bring him to justice and make sure to call it Chalcis where ever it says friend so Chasse's up position
will equal the current position of the camera.
The physics body will have our chust this node.
The chances tough physics body will equal the body and the chances to ever seen view.
Rename the node that's inside of the scene view to cestus as well.
OK now the reason why I renamed this the Chasse's is because in the future if you're ever working with
more vehicular physics you'll come across the term Chasse's a lot.
It's the more correct term to identify the base.
The frame of the car to back to our bug.
If you look at the green arrow.
Let me just go on the front perspective.
Presti played but twice.
Click on the choices and if you look at this green arrow notice that it's pointing upwards.
So when we register our chance is known as a vehicle or our frim the car actually gets an engine.
So if the chassis is facing upwards if the base the frame of the car is facing upwards then the engine
is going to propel the chassis upwards as well by propelling the chassis upwards.
The wheels will be inverted upwards as well.
And since our concrete won't be supporting the wheels anymore the wheels just fly off into oblivion.
So I just reran the OP.
Notice as I added the car the whole car gets inverted because the engine propels the car upwards.
The concrete isn't supporting the wheels anymore and the wheels just fly into oblivion.
So to fix this it's very simple.
Go back to your scene and simply make sure that the choices the frame faces downwards by rotating at
180 degrees
so now the Chasse's is facing downwards but the wheels are on the wrong side.
Here's your challenge trying to reverse the orientation of the wheels such that they're under the Chasse's
paused the video and give it a try.
To reverse the orientation just switch the vertical position sign.
So instead of negative 0.1 make it 0.1 do the same thing for every other wheel.
0.1 for the rear left wheel.
Zero point one for the front right wheel and for the front left wheel it's going to be zero point one
as well now the head should be above the Cerasus so paused the video and try to reverse the heads orientation.
Again all you have to do is reverse the sign of the vertical position.
So instead of point 1 8 make it negative point 1 8 and this is looking good the chances if you look
at the Green Arrow is facing downwards.
We are on the up wait till the world origin loads as soon as the world origin loads start detecting
some surfaces.
Once you've detected a large enough surface on your car and everything works fine.
The engine is propelling the Cerasus downwards.
And since we're propelling the Chasse's downwards the concrete supports the car so it stays in place.
The Chasse's is facing downwards towards the concrete not towards oblivion.
OK so we just successfully added vehicular behavior to our car.
Notice how the car is vibrating like it has a real life engine.
This is pretty cool.
Now when you add vehicular behavior to your car it automatically rotates your wheels 90 degrees.
Notice how the wheels are vertical when they should be horizontal like what we have in our sigfile.
We don't want the wheels to rotate 90 degrees to fix this.
Back to your scene.
Give the chances for children.
So press on child node 4 times child no child node no child node.
Call the children rear right.
Parent
we're left parent
front right parent in front left parent
position the parents exactly where the wheels are.
So the rear right wheel has the position.
Point one point one a negative point one two for dessert.
So give their parent the exact same positioning.
Point one point one and negative point went to
do the same thing for the rear left parent the rear left has positions negative.
Point one point one negative point one two.
So I'm just going to put that negative point one point one and I think it was a negative point when
to so negative points went to for the zent
the front right wheel has positions point one point one point and one to all positive.
So point one point one and point one to.
As for the front left.
It will have positions negative point at one point and one point went to.
So a negative point at one point one point one two.
And now make each wheel a child of its respective parents.
So the rear right wheel will be a child of the rear right parents the rear left will be a child of the
rear left parents the front right will be a child of the front right parent and the same thing for the
front left and all the wheels are positioned relative to the wheel parent not the Cerasus.
Now position the wheels exactly where their respective real parents are.
This one the rear right wheel is already positioned exactly where its parent is.
Notice it's position is 0 0 0 so it's perfectly aligned with its parent.
The same thing for the rear left wheel the front right wheel and the front left Paran as well.
So the wheel parents are positioned exactly where the wheels used to be.
And since the wheels are positioned exactly where the parents are then the position of the wheels didn't
really change.
It's the same as it was before.
So why did I just do this in the view controller instead of loading the wheels load the wheel parents.
So just parents to the end of each string.
And now we're loading the wheel parents not the wheel.
And now we're registering the parents as the vehicle or wheels not the wheels themselves.
So the wheel parents are going to be the ones that rotate 90 degrees and the wheels themselves however
will remain the same.
The wheel parents are invisible nodes.
They don't have any shape color or geometry.
We don't care if they are rotated or not as long as the wheels themselves remain the same as how we
have them right here.
So once we add vehicular behavior to our car it's just going to rotate some invisible nodes instead
of rotating the wheels themselves.
So run the UP WAIT TILL THE WORLD origin loads
as soon as the world orange and loads start detecting some surfaces.
Once you've detected a big enough surface and your car
and the wheels look perfect the car is now a perfect vehicle.
We can finally give it vehicular behavior the first vehicular behavior we're going to give our car is
orienting and moving the wheels according to how we're moving the phone.
We'll do that in the next video.